README.md, before:

### How to run this lessons?

`npm start`

Please follow the commit names to understand the concepts clearly. Also, to see the output you need to un-comment the required code in App.js

For more info: Please visit this [link](https://sathyalog.wordpress.com/2019/12/16/react-basics-2020/)

#### Please install 'ES7 React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native snippets' vscode extension for productivity
Following are the snippets shortcut to use
1. `rconst` - constructor generation
2. `rce` - class component
3. `rfce` - functional component
4. `rpce` - pure component
5. `clg` - console.log

#### Concepts Covered:

1. Functional Component
2. Class Component
3. with JSX
4. without JSX
5. Props, children props for both functional and class components
6. States
7. setState, prevState examples
8. Binding event handlers
9. How to use methods as props
10. Styling Components
11. Handling forms
12. Life Cycle Methods(Mounting,Updating)
13. Pure Components
14. React Memo
15. Refs
16. Forward Refs
17. Portals
18. HOC - Higher Order Components
19. Context API - Eg: Vihaan(Grandson) is directly fetching his GrandFather(Chandra) assets without his Father(Sathya) help.
20. HTTP - GET and POST using Axios
21. Redux with a basic example
22. Hooks Introduction - Class Counter vs Hooks Counter - hooks folder
23. Using Previous State in Classes and Hooks. Refer - Class Counter Two and Hooks Counter Two files in hooks folder
24. Hooks with Object - Hooks Three file in hooks folder
    - Note: setState can merge the state with other values but where as useState cannot merge the state and we need to handle additionally using spread operator. Please refer the HooksThree.js onChange of input where we use ...name in setName. Which means, get replica of name object and later set firstName with input value.
--------------------------------------------

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br />
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (Webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

### Deployment

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify

Commit message:

usage of useEffect in functional vs componentDidUpdate in class components

README.md, after:

### How to run this lessons?

`npm start`

Please follow the commit names to understand the concepts clearly. Also, to see the output you need to un-comment the required code in App.js

For more info: Please visit this [link](https://sathyalog.wordpress.com/2019/12/16/react-basics-2020/)

#### Please install 'ES7 React/Redux/GraphQL/React-Native snippets' vscode extension for productivity
Following are the snippets shortcut to use
1. `rconst` - constructor generation
2. `rce` - class component
3. `rfce` - functional component
4. `rpce` - pure component
5. `clg` - console.log

#### Concepts Covered:

1. Functional Component
2. Class Component
3. with JSX
4. without JSX
5. Props, children props for both functional and class components
6. States
7. setState, prevState examples
8. Binding event handlers
9. How to use methods as props
10. Styling Components
11. Handling forms
12. Life Cycle Methods(Mounting,Updating)
13. Pure Components
14. React Memo
15. Refs
16. Forward Refs
17. Portals
18. HOC - Higher Order Components
19. Context API - Eg: Vihaan(Grandson) is directly fetching his GrandFather(Chandra) assets without his Father(Sathya) help.
20. HTTP - GET and POST using Axios
21. Redux with a basic example
22. Hooks Introduction - Class Counter vs Hooks Counter - hooks folder
23. Using Previous State in Classes and Hooks. Refer - Class Counter Two and Hooks Counter Two files in hooks folder
24. Hooks with Object - HooksWithObject file in hooks folder
    - Note: setState can merge the state with other values but where as useState cannot merge the state and we need to handle additionally using spread operator. Please refer the HooksThree.js onChange of input where we use ...name in setName. Which means, get replica of name object and later set firstName with input value.
25. Hooks with array
26. useEffect - will execute everytime the component renders/re-renders. Just an replacement of componentDidMount/componentDidUpdate in class components. Advantage over here is instead of using 2 lifecycle methods in class components, we can use this useEffect only once in functional component.
--------------------------------------------

This project was bootstrapped with [Create React App](https://github.com/facebook/create-react-app).

## Available Scripts

In the project directory, you can run:

### `npm start`

Runs the app in the development mode.<br />
Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) to view it in the browser.

The page will reload if you make edits.<br />
You will also see any lint errors in the console.

### `npm test`

Launches the test runner in the interactive watch mode.<br />
See the section about [running tests](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/running-tests) for more information.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `build` folder.<br />
It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.<br />
Your app is ready to be deployed!

See the section about [deployment](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment) for more information.

### `npm run eject`

**Note: this is a one-way operation. Once you `eject`, you can’t go back!**

If you aren’t satisfied with the build tool and configuration choices, you can `eject` at any time. This command will remove the single build dependency from your project.

Instead, it will copy all the configuration files and the transitive dependencies (Webpack, Babel, ESLint, etc) right into your project so you have full control over them. All of the commands except `eject` will still work, but they will point to the copied scripts so you can tweak them. At this point you’re on your own.

You don’t have to ever use `eject`. The curated feature set is suitable for small and middle deployments, and you shouldn’t feel obligated to use this feature. However we understand that this tool wouldn’t be useful if you couldn’t customize it when you are ready for it.

## Learn More

You can learn more in the [Create React App documentation](https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/getting-started).

To learn React, check out the [React documentation](https://reactjs.org/).

### Code Splitting

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/code-splitting

### Analyzing the Bundle Size

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/analyzing-the-bundle-size

### Making a Progressive Web App

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/making-a-progressive-web-app

### Advanced Configuration

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/advanced-configuration

### Deployment

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/deployment

### `npm run build` fails to minify

This section has moved here: https://facebook.github.io/create-react-app/docs/troubleshooting#npm-run-build-fails-to-minify
